JUDY WOODRUFF: We return now
to the top story of the day,
Donald Trump Jr.'s release of
e-mails showing he met with
a Russian lawyer during the
2016 presidential campaign, in
hopes of gaining
damaging information
about Hillary Clinton.
For a closer look at the
political fallout from all this,
we turn to Karine Jean-Pierre,
a senior adviser to
MoveOn.org and a veteran of
the Obama administration.
And Matt Schlapp, he's
the chairman of the
American Conservative
Union and the former
deputy political director
for President George W. Bush.
And it's great to have you
both back on the program.
Thank you for being here.
So, Karine, to you first.
How damaging is all this
information about the
Donald Trump Jr. meeting?
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE,
Democratic Strategist: I
think it's pretty damaging.
We finally have evidence,
e-mails, that were not
fake news, because it
was actually delivered,
released by Don Jr., that shows
that a foreign - - he met --
he and Paul Manafort and Jared
Kushner met with a foreign
agent in the sole, sole purpose
of trying to get information
given by a foreign
adversary, intelligence
from a foreign adversary.
And I think that's
pretty damaging.
I think, for a long time,
Republicans have been
moving that goalpost, right?
They have been saying,
oh, there's no meeting.
Oh, well, if there's no meeting,
there's no proof of collusion.
Nobody on the campaign
knows any -- or have
any Russian connections.
Well, now we're at a point
where, yes, there's a meeting.
It looks like there potentially
could have been collusion.
And now what?
Now what do Republicans do?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Matt, how do
you see the damage, or not?
MATT SCHLAPP, Former White House
Director of Political Affairs:
Well, you know, my -- what
I have said continually is,
is that my guess is, in the
presidential campaign, they will
have e-mails or phone
conversations or meetings
with people that were
trying to be helpful
to the campaign.
So, this doesn't come
as a big shock to me.
I think the big mistake
they have made is whenever
you're involved in one
of these investigations
- - and I was in a White
House that had a special
counsel -- you search
your e-mails immediately.
You go through -- if you
have phone logs, and you look
through all your information,
and you just fully comply,
you're as completely
as transparent as
you possibly can be.
Actually, the reason we know
this is because Jared Kushner
and Paul Manafort updated the
disclosure to the government,
and they were much more
fulsome in the information they
gave, which was the
right thing to do.
It just would have been
better if that could have
done as soon as possible.
It's the drip, drip, drip that
gives the press the ability to
write another story and another
story.
But the underlying facts still
prove absolutely no criminality.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Absolutely
no criminality?
We had a discussion
about this a few minutes
ago with two lawyers.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Yes.
Well, we don't
know that for sure.
I mean, look, to me, it looks
like textbook collusion.
It looks like campaign finance
violation, at least for me,
someone who worked on campaigns
and, just like yourself,
worked in the White House.
(CROSSTALK)
MATT SCHLAPP: Yes, but you guys
were never under investigation.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Right.
We were never under
investigation.
Thanks goodness, Obama,
no investigation.
MATT SCHLAPP: Because
we were pretty nice.
We were pretty nice.
(LAUGHTER)
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: But, look --
but I think this is the problem.
If they want true transparency
-- this is they, the Trump
administration -- why don't
just they put it all out there?
(CROSSTALK)
MATT SCHLAPP: That's why
Donald Trump Jr. did this,
because it's the right thing to
do.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Yes, but
the only reason they do it is
because you have The Washington
Post out there and The New
York Times doing the work and
putting out the information in
piecemeal.
Then the drip, drip,
drip stuff happens.
MATT SCHLAPP: Or maybe they're
being leaked inside the White
House or inside the apparatus.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Well, then
that's Donald Trump's problem.
MATT SCHLAPP: Can I go,
Judy, to this question
of an FEC violation?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yes.
MATT SCHLAPP: Because
I saw the conversation
in the show as well.
And the FEC has put
on their Web site...
JUDY WOODRUFF: This is the
Federal Elections Commission.
MATT SCHLAPP: Right.
You can go on their Web
site and check it out.
But they already said
that the idea that you
could prove criminality
unless there was cash
that went directly to
a candidate is almost
impossible to prove.
So I think the FEC
violations here are absurd.
The idea that this is treason,
that this was taking up arms
against your own country, I
think, is absurd.
Then you have this question
of collusion, which isn't
really a legal term.
And then I love this, potential
collusion, and I don't even
know where you go on that.
Look, the bottom line
is, we want to know this.
Did anybody on team Trump
do anything illegal with
the Putin government
that somehow subverted
the elections?
That's a pretty big
charge, but an easy charge
to eventually answer.
And I think we all just
want to get that answer and
close the books on this.
The American people are
fair, and let's move on.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is the standard
of legality, Karine, going
to be the only standard that
matters here?
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: So, I
think that matters as well.
But we do have -- we cannot
forget that Russians actually
attacked our country.
They tried to undermine
our democracy.
And that is actually
still happening.
There was a Washington
Post recent reporting
that showed that Russians
were currently trying
to hack into our infrastructure.
And so this is what I'm not
understanding why Republicans
aren't just standing up and
saying something and keeping
Trump administration and
his associates accountable.
MATT SCHLAPP: I agree with this.
I think what Russia has tried
to do in this most recent
election and previous elections
is wrong.
I think it's wrong what the DNC
was doing with the government
of Ukraine to try to help
Hillary Clinton.
I think these things
really should be...
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE:
Not the same.
MATT SCHLAPP: Well, but
it is -- if you shouldn't
deal with a foreign
national, then you shouldn't
deal with a foreign national.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Russia
is a foreign adversary.
It's not the same.
The DNC denied it.
But Russia is not --
is a foreign adversary.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I want to come
to something, because there...
MATT SCHLAPP: Sure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What has
struck me, Matt Schlapp,
is the comments from
conservative commentators
in the last day or so
about what's happening,
Charles Krauthammer,
who said last night:
I have been defending
this White House, this
administration for months.
Now I find out what they
were doing, and I'm left
basically hanging out to dry.
Are you seeing some Republicans,
some conservatives feeling as if
the administration hasn't been
straight with them?
MATT SCHLAPP: Of course.
What you're seeing from
Republicans and conservatives,
when you see the drip,
drip, drip, and with
this revelation that there
was a meeting, it does
get people concerned.
They say, well, I didn't think
there was going to be a meeting.
I thought I would have
learned this by now.
That's why getting all
the information out
is awfully important.
Get it all out.
My advice is to anybody
listening on the Trump
team, get the e-mails
out, get the calendar
items out.
Get everything out.
If you have nothing to hide,
just put it all out there.
I think that's what now they
have done with the refiling
of their disclosures, which is
why we know about this meeting.
So, it was their disclosure
that is the reason we know this.
Donald Jr., yes, he put out
his e-mails, but it was also
true that the media had gotten
them.
So, having full disclosure
will calm people down, because
all really conservatives care
about at the end, Judy,
is, was there wrongdoing?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Karine, we are
seeing, in poll after poll --
I haven't seen polls since this
latest information came
out -- but the conservative
- - Donald Trump's voting
base, they are sticking
with him.
They're saying, we don't care
about Russia, for the most part.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I'm making a bit
of a blanket statement here.
But they're saying, what we
want to see is, we want to see
something done about health
care, we want to see jobs.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: I
think that's exactly right.
But here's the thing.
Voters didn't care about
Watergate, until they did.
And the issue that I have with
that is, these elected officials
on the Hill have a duty,
they have a responsibility,
regardless if
voters care or not.
They took an oath to
protect the Constitution,
to defend the Constitution
against all enemies,
foreign or domestic.
And so, therefore, they
should care that there was
an attack on our country.
So, I think that is what is
really kind of getting under
my skin, is, this is truly,
truly important.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you
do have the committees
doing the investigation.
MATT SCHLAPP: Yes, the only
thing I would say to that
is, is that what Russia tries
to do with our cyber-security
in our society on a daily basis
with espionage is a big problem.
I agree with you on that.
I actually the Obama
administration -- he was
in charge during this
period of time -- he
actually left us vulnerable.
He left our potentially -- if
you're making the charge that
they had something to do with
our election system, he
was the sheriff in town.
The DNC was hacked.
I think that what we need to
do is make sure that we work in
a bipartisan way to make sure
that they can't affect
our society this way.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: But
Republicans are making
this a partisan issue.
They're not being bipartisan.
MATT SCHLAPP: I think there is a
little bit of that to go around.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Mitch
McConnell hasn't stood up basic
rhetoric, not real conversation
about it, and Paul Ryan.
They need to stand
up and speak louder.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right.
We may have another chance
to talk about this again.
It may not be the last chance.
(CROSSTALK)
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE: Sorry, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF:
Karine Jean-Pierre.
It's all right.
Matt Schlapp.
Thank you both for being here.
MATT SCHLAPP: I'm
hopeful for a new topic.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: I bet you are.
KARINE JEAN-PIERRE:
Thanks, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you.